 Rosette® Linguistics Platform Chosen as "Trend Setting" Product by KMWorld Magazine

Rosette recognized for flexibility, usability, and adoption rate in analyzing and processing multilingual data

CAMBRIDGE, MA; August 31, 2006 -- Basis Technology (www.basistech.com) announced today that its Rosette® Linguistics Platform has been chosen as a "Trend Setting Product" of 2006 by KMWorld Magazine. This prestigious ranking, highlights innovative products that make a significant impact in the knowledge management industry.

"Assembling the list of Trend-Setting Products of 2006 is a year-long collaborative effort with editorial colleagues, analysts and, especially, users," says Hugh McKellar, KMWorld editor in chief. "Roughly 1,500 products from some 300 vendors were considered, and the ones chosen demonstrate exquisite execution designed for, and with input from, the most important constituency of them all -- their customers."

Basis Technology's Rosette Linguistics Platform is the world's most widely-used technology suite for multilingual information retrieval. Leading search engines, text mining and business intelligence companies, and government agencies rely on Rosette for language identification, Unicode compliance, multilingual search, entity extraction, and name matching.

"The next generation of search technologies rely on Rosette for its flexible modules, extensive linguistic capabilities, and breadth of language support," said Hugh McKellar. "Rosette is paving the way for the global knowledge management industry with the tools needed to support multilingual text processing."

"We are very pleased by the recognition that the Rosette Linguistics Platform has received," said Steve Cohen, Executive Vice President at Basis Technology. "Rosette is a robust, customer-focused platform that is easy to integrate and comes with technical support that's second to none."

For more information on Basis Technology's Rosette Linguistics Platform, visit www.basistech.com/products.

See the full list of "Trend Setting Products of 2006" at www.kmworld.com/Articles/ReadArticle.aspx?ArticleID=18052
