Primate brain architecture and selection in relation to sex
Patrik Lindenfors , Charles L Nunn and Robert A Barton

BMC Biology 2007, 5:20     doi:10.1186/1741-7007-5-20

Published 	  	10 May 2007

Abstract (provisional)

Background

Social and competitive demands often differ between the sexes in mammals. These differing demands should be expected to produce variation in the relative sizes of various brain structures. Sexual selection on males can be predicted to influence brain components handling sensory-motor skills important for physical competition or neural pathways involving aggression. Conversely, because female fitness is more closely linked to ecological factors and social interactions that enable better acquisition of resources, social selection on females should select for brain components important for navigating social networks. Sexual and social selection acting on one sex could produce sexual dimorphism in brain structures that as a consequence would result in larger species averages for those same brain structures. Alternatively, sex specific selection pressures could produce correlated effects in the other sex, resulting in larger brain structures for both males and females of a species. Data are presently unavailable on sex-specific sizes of brain structures for anthropoid primates, but under either scenario, effects of sexual and social selection should leave a detectable signal in average sizes of brain structures for different species.

Results

The degree of male intrasexual selection was positively correlated with several structures involved in autonomic functions, sensory-motor skills, and in pathways relating to aggression and aggression control. The degree of male intrasexual selection was not significantly correlated with relative neocortex size, which instead was positively correlated with female, but negatively with male, social group size.

Conclusions

Sexual selection on males and social selection on females have exerted different effects on primate brain architecture. Species with a higher degree of male intrasexual selection carry a neural signature of an evolutionary history centered on physical conflicts, but no traces of increased demands on socio-cognitive tasks. Conversely, female sociality is indicated to have driven the evolution of socio-cognitive skills. Primate brain architecture is therefore likely to be a product of ecological and species-specific social factors as well as different sex-specific selection pressures. Our results also highlight the need for acquisition and analysis of sex-specific brain components in mammals.